Our text for today,
1 Thessalonians 2:7,
is part of a very warm,
comforting, and encouraging letter
—1 Thessalonians.
It’s clear from the tone and message
that the apostle Paul
really loved the brothers and sisters
in Thessalonica.
He was there at the founding
of the congregation,
and he saw the persecution
that they endured with the Jews
when they tried to come into the truth,
and he knew the persecution
they were still going through.
He was concerned about them,
and he wanted to come see them in person.
If you look at 1 Thessalonians 2:17,
he says: “But when we were
separated from you, brothers,
“for just a short time
(in person, not in our hearts),
“because of our [very] strong desire,
we made every effort to see you in person.”
He was concerned about them;
he really wanted to know how they were doing.
But isn’t that a nice expression
that Paul uses
that while he couldn’t be there “in person,”
he was with them ‘in his heart’?
We feel the same way today
when we’re separated from our families,
our congregations, and our close friends.
We are with them, not “in person,”
but we’re with them “in our hearts.”
Since he couldn’t be there in person,
Paul sent Timothy.
And Timothy came back with a very good report
about how the brothers and sisters
were doing.
And then Paul writes this inspired letter
of 1 Thessalonians to them.
Now, 1 Thessalonians is an excellent example
of a well-written and encouraging letter.
If you’re looking for ideas on how to write
an encouraging letter to others,
1 Thessalonians is a good example
to study and look at.
It’s a very heartfelt and meaningful letter.
If you read or listen to the whole letter
(it only takes about 15 minutes),
you can easily imagine
that Paul was alive today
and wrote that letter to you
and your congregation.
It’s so warm and encouraging that you
may want to listen to it several times.
It feels really appropriate
to the trials and challenges
that we, many of us, are facing today.
Let’s take a look at a few verses
from 1 Thessalonians
that can help us
to endure our current trials.
And we’re going to cover four basic themes:
commendation, gentleness,
friendship, and consolation.
First, let’s talk about commendation.
If we look at 1 Thessalonians 1:3
—so all these verses are
from 1 Thessalonians—verse 3, chapter 1:
“For we continually remember
your faithful work, your loving labor,
“and your endurance because of your hope
in our Lord Jesus Christ
in the presence of our God and Father.”
Yes, look for occasions to commend others
and be as specific as possible.
One sister got a text message recently
from another sister thanking her
and her husband for something
they had done over ten years ago
for that couple.
Well, how do you feel when you
receive a well-written card,
text message, or email that commends you
for something that you have done
or recalls something
that you did for someone?
You feel encouraged and strengthened;
you feel happy.
See, commendation helps all of us to know
that others see the good that we’re doing,
and they appreciate it.
The apostle Paul described his reaction
when he got the good report from Timothy
about how they were doing.
He used a phrase in chapter 3 and verse 8
—he said: “We are revitalized.”
And isn’t that a good way to put it?
When we get commendation
and we hear a good report, we’re revitalized.
Now next, after commendation,
let’s consider our text for today,
chapter 2 and verse 7.
He said: “On the contrary,
we became gentle in your midst,
as when a nursing mother
tenderly cares for her own children.”
Yes, gentleness.
When you get a cut on your hand
and someone else wants to help you
take care of it,
how do you want that cut to be handled?
Gently.
It hurts.
Well, emotionally, many people today
are really hurt,
and we need to care for them gently.
Are our conversations,
our text messages, emails, letters—
Are we gentle?
With the stress and pressures of life
in this old system,
it can be easy to be abrupt, or curt,
or short, in our dealings with others.
When we’re going to send an email,
do we read it over and think for a moment
before we press Send?
If you receive an email that’s very strong
or a bit biting,
are we gentle in our response,
realizing that others are also feeling
the emotional strain of things?
Do we take time to express
our tender heart and care?
For example, we may send a card
or a text message
with a couple of scriptures cited,
and this is always appreciated.
But one sister said that what she
appreciated even more
was when someone sent a card and they
actually wrote out the phrase
in the scripture
that they appreciated and said why
that scripture or phrase
meant something to them.
After gentleness, he mentions friendship.
Let’s look at chapter 2 and verse 8:
“So having tender affection for you,
we were determined to impart to you,
“not only the good news of God
but also our very selves,
because you became so beloved to us.”
Well, that expression ‘impart to you
our very selves’ is powerful.
Paul was not just their Bible teacher,
but he was a close friend.
All of us need close friends
—especially these days—
ones that you can talk to,
express your feelings to,
and be confident that they’re going to listen
and respect your thoughts and privacy.
Paul came to really love
the brothers and sisters in Thessalonica.
He did not treat them as a to-do list,
checking off things or say,
“This is my job to teach them the Bible”
and move on.
The relationship went deeper than that.
Now, we may work together;
we may be in the same congregation;
we may have a meal together,
but that does not automatically
make us friends.
The old saying ‘to have a friend,
you have to be a friend’
illustrates that being a friend really takes
a lot of effort and work on our part.
Are we true friends with others?
Are we taking the initiative
to make close friends?
As Paul says, it really means giving
of “our very selves.”
Now, after friendship, he mentions consoling.
If we look at chapter 2 and verse 11,
he says: “You well know that we
kept exhorting and consoling you
“and bearing witness to each one of you,
just as a father does his children.”
Well, earlier, the apostle Paul
had used a mother
to illustrate gentleness.
Now he uses a father to illustrate consoling.
We can see that the apostle Paul
really felt like he was family
with the congregation there in Thessalonica.
Now, life has some
very sad and tragic events.
And a good father knows
how to console and comfort his children
when things go wrong and bad things happen.
Paul knew that the Thessalonians
were actually going through a tough time,
and many of them had suffered
the loss in death of friends or family.
Notice his very consoling reasoning
in chapter 5
in which we’ll just read one verse
about the hope of the resurrection.
Let’s look at verse 10:
“He died for us,
“so that whether
we stay awake or are asleep,
we should live together with him.”
Well, that’s so consoling, isn’t it?
Death does not break
that person’s relationship with Jehovah.
Alive or dead, Jehovah loves all of us.
So if we review,
the inspired advice
in Paul’s warm and loving letter
to his friends in Thessalonica
can encourage all of us to commend,
to be gentle, to show true friendship,
and to console one another.
And as we head deeper into this old system,
it’s kind of like watching
the chaos on a ship
when the passengers
realize that the ship is sinking.
We, though, on the other hand,
are in the lifeboats, and we’re together.
We’re trying to help one another
make it through this situation
until we can be rescued.
We’re comforting, consoling,
and helping one another
and waiting to be rescued.
So to all of you, we can say the words
of chapter 5 and verse 11:
“Therefore, keep encouraging one another
“and building one another up,
just as you are in fact doing.”